---
title: Results and Conclusion
subtitle: "Summarizing the results of our data analysis."
---

## Metrics of Neighborhood Change

We built a machine-readable data dictionary to allow us to find the variables we need using the following functions: a category function which filters variables by theme or group, a function that searches variable descriptions for a specific string and returns any variables that match, and a function to filter variables by time periods. Creating these functions enabled us to fully utilize the over-time aspects of the data. 

## Descriptive Analysis of Neighborhood Change

Our results indicate a notable difference in home values between the 1990-2000 period and 2000-2010. The first decade results show that home values were decreased, although minimally (less than $5000 on average, when accounting for inflation). The second decade results indicate that home values were increased by an average of $36000. So, the changes in the 90’s were more evenly distributed, whereas in the 2000’s the distribution was right-skewed, indicating more high-end outliers. San Francisco city was chosen as an example to demonstrate the analysis of neighborhood change. Our results indicate, as with most cities at this time, the inner city tracts had the lowest values and the farther from the city center the tract has higher the median value (with a few exceptions) in 1990's. The largest changes occur in tracts with above-average home prices in 1990. Tracts with below-average prices continued to drop while those with higher prices increased.

## Predicting MHV Change

Our regression models demonstrated that poverty rate is the best predictor of growth in median home value between 2000 and 2010 across all tracts. The effect of poverty rate
is equal across all tracts and does not change depending on the metro area. Percent white is another strong indicator of MHV Growth, however this impact changes across tracts. 
Percent professional employees is another significant variable, but it's impact is not as great as the other two control variables. All three variables are significantly 
correlated with MHV growth.


## Evaluation of Tax Credit Programs

We have worked through and shown the steps taken to analyze the impact for two tax incentive programs: the Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) and the New Market Tax Credit (NMTC). Both programs are federally funded programs intended to help low income communities. But do the programs realize an impact on the communities it is intended to help? As seen in Chapter 5, the results vary.  

Between 2000 and 2010, houses rose an average of 51% in value. The NMTC program shows no difference in the treatment and control groups as evidenced by the non-statistically-significant coefficient. The LIHTC program does have a statistically significant coefficient which indicates that houses participating in the program rose an average of .03% *more* than non-participating homes for a total of 51.03%. Neither program is having a strong impact, but the LIHTC impact is greater than than the NMTC program.
